[RIKA]
You don't have to do this.
Please, Satoko, no one would
expect you to go back
to living with
a cruel man like him.
[SATOKO]
My uncle and I are family,
so of course we're
expected to live together.
It's a perfectly
ordinary arrangement.
[RIKA]
No, it's not!
You know I'm right.
He and your aunt were
so awful to the two of you.
Somebody who treats you
like that isn't family!
Stay here with me.
I'm afraid staying
isn't an option.
He's going to destroy my
Nii‐Nii's room if I don't go,
and I can't let that happen.
Please, Rika.
Trying to stop me will
only make this harder.
[RIKA]
Satoko!
We can still walk to school
together, can't we?
Like always?
[SATOKO]
Yes.
Of course.
I'll meet you at the bottom
of the stone steps, okay?
[VILLAGE ELDER] Real sorry for
bothering you so late, Mion.
Oh, no worries, it's fine.
You should come back
tomorrow morning, though.
The old lady is
sleeping like the dead,
and I'm afraid to wake her.
[laughs]
I get it, but even so...
Is it something serious?
There's this rumor
that's been going
around the village, ya see.
How 'bout I go ahead
and tell you what I heard,
and you decide whether
or not to pass it on?
[MION]
All right, then, let's hear it.
Well, I figure
at least you should know
since it involves the Hojo girl.
Her uncle was spotted
at his house in the village.
Seems old Teppei is back.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
The man who saw him got
a good look and an earful.
He was yellin'
and cursin' like usual.
[sighs]
Anyway, that's why I came.
Tell Lady Oryo if
you think she should know.
[MION]
Satoko.
[SATOKO]
I'm heading out now.
[TEPPEI]
By yourself?
You absolutely sure
you don't want me
to go with ya, keep ya company?
I'm only walking to school.
There's no need
to make it a procession.
[TEPPEI] But you said the
whole village is out to get ya.
What's to stop
those lousy bullies
from goin' after you on the way
or even once ya get there?
[SATOKO]
Thank you for worrying about me.
Knowing you're on my side
gives me the strength
to continue in spite
of all I'm up against.
[TEPPEI]
Hm...
Isn't there anything I can do
to make things easier on you?
You're already
doing it by being here.
No matter what horrible
things might happen
when I walk out the door,
I'll always know
I can come home to family
and that alone means more to me
than I could possibly express.
Yeah? You sure?
It'll be fine, Uncle.
You'll see.
[sighs]
[RENA]
Hey, Mii!
Sorry we're late!
Yeah, good morning, Mion!
[MION]
Really, you guys?
I was this close
to ditching you.
Yeah, well, we'll still
make it in time if we run.
A morning run wasn't
in my plans today.
So, what was the hold up?
Keiichi here overslept
because of his dreams.
Apparently, they were
about Satoko! Awooo!
Hey, stop!
You're gonna make her
think it was something creepy.
[KEIICHI]
You okay?
Huh?
Uh, yeah,
just surprised to find out
you're that smitten with
our resident trap specialist.
It isn't like that, though.
Now come on, We really do need
to run, or we're gonna be late!
[RENA giggles]
Coming!
We'd better hurry.
I'm worried that
we won't make it on time.
[SATOKO]
Sorry.
But it doesn't look like
I'll be able to walk
with you after all.
Why not?
There are a few errands
that I need to run for my uncle.
What errands?
Surely, they can wait
till after school.
It'll be better
if I do them now.
Don't worry.
It shouldn't take long.
And this way,
he won't get so angry.
[RIKA]
Please, Satoko.
Just put them off.
Come to school with me,
and then we can take care
of them together
later this afternoon.
I have to do what
my uncle tells me to.
You don't, though!
Please accept my decision
and go on ahead without me.
I only came because
I wanted to tell you in person.
I'll see you at school.
Sorry again that
I can't walk with you.
Bye.
[CHIE] Ms. Furude, you're
late and where is Ms. Hojo?
[KEIICHI]
Rika?
I'm sorry, ma'am.
Satoko might come
in a bit late today
[CHIE]
I see.
Hey, Rika.
You think Satoko is gonna make
it in time to eat with us?
If Rika's not
comfortable telling us,
we'll just have to wait.
For all we know,
we might be
worrying over nothing.
Uh, Mion, why does it seem like
you know something
about all this?
How's that?
You've been acting
sketchy all morning.
I heard something
from a council member.
Something that got me worried.
What was it?
We haven't told you
about Satoko's uncle.
You mean, that freakin' bastard
who beat her up and starved her?
Oh, wow.
Guess you heard
it somewhere else.
[MION]
His name is Teppei Hojo
and apparently, he turned up
again in Hinamizawa recently.
[KEIICHI]
Satoko!
[SATOKO]
What is it, Keiichi?
Everybody's been worried sick!
Why did you get here
halfway through lunchtime?
Heh heh. What a silly
thing to worry about.
Hey, Satoko?
You okay?
I'm sorry if I caused you
any concern.
My uncle just needed me
to run a few errands for him
before I came in.
On a school day?
He should do it for himself!
I'd really rather eat lunch
than talk about this,
if we could.
I'm feeling quite
peckish at the moment.
Satoko.
[KEIICHI]
Hey.
We're friends, right?
On the same team?
[MION, RENA]
Mm.
Rika, can you please
tell us what's going on?
Mii.
[KEIICHI]
Dammit!
If we know that
he's abusing her,
isn't there somebody
who we can tell?
Yeah, that's right!
If we just bring
proof to the police.
We reported it before.
Last year,
I went to Child Welfare.
So, what did they do about it?
[MION] They sent out a social
worker to check on things.
Then, they interviewed
Satoko and Satoshi
and then their aunt and uncle.
Why would they
interview the adults?
Well, they can
hardly make a decision
without getting both sides
of the story first,
just wouldn't be fair.
And what did
they say in the end?
"We'll stand by."
Stand by for what?
Their beatings hadn't left
any visible marks or bruises.
Not like they could
get 'em on video, either
and no witnesses,
since it all happened at home.
[giggles]
[laughs]
Then what happened?
[MION]
You can guess.
The abuse only got
worse for both of them.
The authorities
couldn't fix things.
There has to be
something we can do
to help Satoko, right?
Mii.
[giggles]
Uh?! What happened to you?!
I'm quite all right, Uncle.
I just took a
little tumble, that's all.
I don't know what rat
bastard did this to you,
but there'll be nothin'
but pieces left
when I'm done with 'em!
No, please, calm down!
[TEPPEI] Just you wait, Satoko,
that asshole's gonna be bruised
and bleeding and wishing
I'd been nice enough
to go ahead and kill 'em!
They'll never pull this kinda
bullshit ever again, I swear it!
I'm fine, Uncle.
Really, I am.
A little mud is nothing
to get so upset over.
[TEPPEI] Move it,
I've got a beating to hand out!
Please, if you retaliate,
it will only make things worse.
Stop this!
I can't let you go.
If I do that,
then I'll lose this home
and my family all over again!
Don't leave me.
I can't bear the
thought of being alone.
[TEPPEI]
Uh...
But they hurt you and I can't...
It's okay.
Everything is going
to be all right.
I'm safe.
And I'll stay that way,
here in this house
with my family.
[TEPPEI]
Sorry I lost it.
I can forget all the pain
I've had to endure
and live a nice,
peaceful life with you.
That's all I want,
and if I can have it,
I believe I'll be
truly happy at last.
[TEPPEI sobs]
Good to see all
of you this morning.
Ms. Furude.
Has Ms. Hojo come
along with you today?
Please study while
I step out, okay?
A moment, Ms. Furude?
[CHIE]
Ms. Hojo's uncle.
Is the rumor true?
Then I know what's happening.
What now?
Huh?
If you know about
what's happening,
then what are you
going to do about it?
Uh.
I can go visit her at her house,
and if I notice
anything wrong...
Then you'll report it
to Child Welfare, right?
They won't do anything
unless there's proof of abuse.
[CHIE]
You three!
You should all be in study hall!
[KEIICHI]
To hell with study hall, ma'am!
Satoko's in trouble,
and she needs help!
I understand your frustration,
but until I've seen
her living situation,
I can't make
a report in good faith!
She's right. I think it's best
if we let Ms. Chie
handle things for right now.
[RIKA]
I agree.
I think it's best if
we listen to Rena.
Uh... All right, if that's
fine with you, Rika.
[CHIE]
Class Rep.
Please escort them back.
Let's go then.
[TEPPEI]
Huh?
Don't you think
you should be lyin' down?
[SATOKO]
I'm all right now.
I felt a bit feverish
this morning, but it passed.
[TEPPEI] Let's check,
where'd that thermometer get to?
[SATOKO]
I told you, my fever's gone.
I'll take your word for it,
and I guess if you're still
feeling all right tomorrow,
you can go back to school.
Don't worry, 'cause you'll have
your own personal bodyguard
walkin' with you both ways.
[SATOKO]
I don't want to go.
Huh?
[SATOKO]
I don't want to go to school.
[TEPPEI]
Uh... Hold on now.
I know you've had some
trouble with the villagers,
but are you sayin' even
your classmates are in on it?
[SATOKO]
Why wouldn't they be?
Everyone in my class is
from Hinamizawa, you know.
And your teacher
ain't doin' anything?
She's just sittin' back
and letting 'em
make you miserable?
[SATOKO]
I wish that was the case.
That would be far better.
Your freakin' teacher's
been bullying you, too?
[knock, knock]
[CHIE]
Hello, Mr. Hojo? Are you home?
[TEPPEI]
Who the hell are you?
Hello, sir, you
must be Satoko's uncle.
My name is Chie,
and I'm visiting on behalf
of the Hinamizawa school.
You her teacher?
[CHIE] Could I please speak
with Satoko for a bit?
Huh?
You ain't at school; what
the hell's there to talk about?
[CHIE] Satoko never
came to class today,
and nobody from her household
called to report her absence.
[TEPPEI] Oh yeah, she seems to
have come down with somethin',
full blown fever,
feelin' like shit all day.
I see.
Will she be able
to come in tomorrow?
Like I would know!
You think I can see the
future or somethin', bitch?
Huh? Satoko. It's okay.
I told that woman off;
she's gone now.
[SATOKO]
Thank you for doing that.
But I'm worried
it won't be enough.
Who knows what
they'll do to me next?
Ha! If they band
together against ya,
I'll fight 'em off,
every last one!
You've got somebody lookin'
out for you now, kiddo.
[SATOKO] I knew you
would protect me, Uncle.
[TEPPEI chuckles]
So, what happened?
[CHIE] You were waiting
here for me all this time?
Did she look hurt?
Was she doing okay?
[CHIE]
I don't know.
I didn't get a chance
to talk to her.
[KEIICHI] But at least
we know what's happening.
Satoko's bastard uncle is
keeping her locked up
in her house!
[RENA]
Yeah.
I think it should be enough.
I'll make the call to
Child Welfare Services.
If I tell them what we know,
I'm sure they'll be able
to help somehow.
They didn't back when I called
but if a teacher was calling it,
it might get their attention.
[phone rings]
[TEPPEI]
Yeah?
What? Child Welfare?
The hell are you talking about?
I've got nothing to do
with that, moron.
Huh? A welfare check?
I don't give a damn!
It might be easier
if I talk to them, Uncle.
You don't need to do that.
I can handle whatever
this is about... Um... Okay...
[SATOKO]
Hello?
Apologies for the ruckus.
This is Satoko speaking.
I assume there
are some questions
you would like to ask me.
Of course,
I have nothing to hide.
I am only too happy to answer.
I convinced them that it
was all a big misunderstanding.
I don't see why CWS would
call us in the first place.
I'm afraid I do.
This is clearly
the village's latest volley
in their campaign
to persecute me.
What? Filin' a false report?
[SATOKO]
It's an especially cruel tactic.
Huh?
If Child Welfare Services
believes there's
a problem at home,
they have the power
to tear us apart.
What the hell!
It can't be legal for them
to do somethin' like that.
[SATOKO]
If we're lucky,
the villagers will give up
telling such despicable lies.
Still we must take
care not to give them
a real reason to separate us.
I imagine we'll
be under scrutiny.
Good morning, Rika.
I'm so glad to see you.
I wasn't sure if you'd make it.
[SATOKO]
Since I did, shall we be off?
Yes, of course!
So, you're doing okay now?
[SATOKO]
Yes.
I was feeling
quite poorly for a bit,
but that pesky cold seems
to have cleared up completely.
[RIKA]
That's not what I meant.
You should've gotten a call
from someone at
Child Welfare Services.
[SATOKO]
Yes, that's been resolved.
I simply explained to them
that they were misinformed
about my current situation.
[KEIICHI]
"Standing by"? What the hell?
[MION] Satoko's house
received a phone call
from Child Welfare Services
and that was it.
So, he feeds 'em some bullcrap
and they decide
to stay on standby?
[SATOKO] Surely there's
no need to be so loud, is there?
[KEIICHI]
Satoko?
Yes. Now, would you
please quiet down?
[RENA]
Satoko! Is everything okay?
[EUA laughs]
How very sad.
It would seem that
the human Satoko Hojo
can no longer find joy
in the conventional manner.
Her only happiness now comes
from wallowing in her own
despair and the pity of others.
She moves pieces
around the board
and toys with the
hearts of her pawns
in blind pursuit of
that dubious pleasure.
[KEIICHI]
Jeez, you brat.
[SATOKO gasps]
Hey, are you okay, Satoko?
Satoko, what's wrong?
[EUA chuckles]
Indeed, she is a human being
no more, but rather a witch.
[MION]
Satoko!
[KEIICHI]
Whoa, Satoko, what is it?
[SATOKO]
No!
[laughs]
[MION]
Easy, Satoko!
[SATOKO]
No!
I'm sorry! I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I hate this. I hate this!
Please make it stop!
[laughs]
[SATOKO]
Forgive me! I can't take it!
[sobs]
I hate this! I hate it!
I hate it! I hate it!
No!
Nii‐nii! Please help me!
What is this?
[SATOKO]
Save me!
[laughs]
[KEIICHI]
What's happening to her?
[RIKA] Next time:
"Tatariakashi‐hen, Part 3."